### Date & Topic

- **Date:** 17th July, 2025 
- **Main Focus:** To find AI algorithms that existed and implemented on proof of work(PoS) and validators

---

### 1. Search

- **What did you look for?**  
  - Mainly focused on finding existing solutions how AI helps to mitigate or find the challenges regarding security in blockchain validators.
  - Also tried to understand how to implement our goals in terms of novelty. 

- **Where did you search?**  
  - Primarily from google scholar and perplexity.

- **Useful sources found:**  
  - https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10900961 (ecuring Proof of Stake Blockchains: Leveraging Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning for Detecting and Mitigating alicious Nodes)
  -https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10179426 (Bitcoin-Enhanced Proof-of-Stake Security: Possibilities and Impossibilities)

   

---

### 2. Investigate

- **What did you dig into?**  
  -  Find how AI can help and mitigate PoS security challenges, such as malicious validators, long-range attacks, and Sybil threats.
  - Focused mainly on reinforcement learning and predictive models that can assess validator reliability, reputation, uptime, and historical behavior to dynamically adapt the validator pool. Find it interesting.

- **Any patterns or surprises?**  
  - Surprised to find multi-agent AI systems being tested to mitigate multi-type attacks, showing measurable improvements in validator pool integrity.
  

---

### 3. Reflect

- **What did you learn?**  
  - Learn about how AI Driven validator can play a crucial role in enhancing the security and decentralization of PoS in blockchains.
  - AI models specefically reinforcement learning can dynamically adapt and monitor validators in security challenges.
- **What’s next?**  
  - Will dive into Multi Agent Reinforcement Learning as I feel this could be a viable solution for validator behavior modelling and attack mitigation.
  

---

### 4. Actions

- **Immediate actions:**  
  - Will start collecting data collections asap and going to do experiments 
